all right so we've got got our mics
placed I got a drummer in there now he's
going to hit on it and we're just gonna
turn up the preamp a little bit get some
signal on it and then we'll try to fix
the tone do a little bitty cueing and a
little bit of compression first thing
I'm going to do is check my gain staging
and get a solid signal going to tape so
I'm watching my meter here I've got my
compressor bypassed so it's not
affecting my signal at all all right so
I'm going to start with my EQ bypassed
and basically do a couple of the things
that I normally do which is I'm going to
scoop out some of the low mids and boost
up some of the highs and the presents
range and then also boost up a little
bit of low frequency stuff so I'm
starting out with a shelf at 8 K
boosting that up a few DB and then a
bump right around 3k this could vary
anywhere from 1k up to maybe 5k
depending on the type of music you're
doing and then right around 300 this
this EQ stops at 250 so I'm going to
drop that down quite a bit you can scoop
out a lot of that and makes a big
difference and then I've got a bump at
80 Hertz so I'm going to try that by
unbias it and see how it goes see if I
like it alright it's definitely a good
enough to start starting point with my
EQ I've boosted the level a little bit
so I'm going to trim it back some I
usually compress not a real strong ratio
I'm going to try it start it out about
three two one
I leave a fairly you know relatively
slow attack enough definitely enough to
let the transient through so generally
no less than 10 milliseconds especially
when I'm tracking because I don't want
to screw anything up and then just to
slow enough release that it's going to
kind of slowly pull back to the point
where the next hit hits and that can
vary depending on the tempo of the song
all right so I got it set now I'm going
to take the bypass off and see what it
does sometimes I like to push it a
little hard just to see what it's
actually doing make sure I'm not doing
anything too bad and then I'll back it
up so it's just barely barely giving it
a little more punch all right now I got
to check my gain because I'm losing a
little volume with the compressor so I'm
going to make up for that a little bit
with my output gain here all right so
that's a decent signal on kick in so I'm
going to take that now and work on my
out mic that's sub kick that one's on a
console preamp here we go got a good
signal and I'm going to put a little bit
of EQ on I'm going to do something
similar scoop up the low mids a little
bit maybe not quite as much in this case
and then possibly give it a little bit
of a low-end bump and give it some of
this 1k stuff for for a little bit more
attack off of it but you're not going to
get much much high frequency off of this
mic and I'll kick that EQ in don't need
to do too much to this because it's
already kind of tailored to the sound we
want and then I'm going through this
compressor which is a transient designer
it's a really unusual compressor and
that it doesn't really doesn't compress
the way most do it kind of splits the
sound up into to two times and get the
attack and the sustain so what I want
out of this is a little bit more attack
and a lot less sustain and this give us
a much punch of your low-end and I just
want to make sure I'm not overloading my
signal here so I'm going to trim it back
just a hair
alright I'm going to throw both of these
together get a balance on them that I
like so here's just a kick in mic
doesn't sound very good on its own if I
balance it in add a little bit of low
end of this kick
alrighty last thing I used to do is
check phase make sure I'm not because
those two mics aren't lined up perfectly
I want to make sure that they're not
cancelling each other out any so I
flipped the kick out mic see what it
does
alright I think it sounds good as is so
I'm just going to leave it next thing
we'll do is move on to the snare
you